= RVM Patchsets for MRI-Ruby

== About

Over time, I have developed a number of patches to MRI ruby which I use in all my
projects. I maintain them using stgit. This repository provides them as patchsets for RVM.

They are also frequently merged into the main rvm repository, so usually you can use
them directly after installing/updating rvm.

== Usage

=== Step 1

To use the a recent version of the patchsets, just update rvm:

  rvm get head # OR
  rvm get stable

If rvm isn't update to date yet, or you can easily install them from this repository:

* clone the repository to some convenient place
* cd into the top level directory
* run install.sh

This will automatically remove old versions of the patchsets.

=== Step 2

Reinstall the rubies you want to patch:

  rvm reinstall 1.8.7 --patch railsexpress
  rvm reinstall 1.9.2 --patch railsexpress
  rvm reinstall 1.9.3 --patch railsexpress

Alternatively, you can pass the ruby version to reinstall to the install script:

  ./install.sh 1.8.7 1.9.2 1.9.3

IF you don't want to mess up your vanilla rubies, pass a -n flag to rvm when installing
the patches:

  rvm reinstall 1.8.7 --patch railsexpress -n railsexpress
  rvm reinstall 1.9.2 --patch railsexpress -n railsexpress
  rvm reinstall 1.9.3 --patch railsexpress -n railsexpress

This will then require you to specify the ruby version for rvm like so:

  rvm use 1.9.2-railsexpress

== Notes

The patches are for specific versions of ruby. They might work with later versions, but
there's no guarantee. The following versions are currently supported:

  1.8.7-p334  # not recommended, as p352 fixes a serious GC corruption problem
  1.8.7-p352  # not recommended, use at least p358
  1.8.7-p357  # fixes a DOS vulnerability in 1.8.7
  1.8.7-p358  # current rvm default for MRI-ruby 1.8.7
  1.9.2-p180  #
  1.9.2-p290  #
  1.9.2-p318  # current rvm default for MRI-ruby 1.9.2
  1.9.3-p125  # current rvm default for MRI-ruby 1.9.3

In order to make some patch level n the default for rvm, add the line

  ruby_1.8.7_patch_level=n

to $rvm_path/user/db.

To enable heap dump support, pass the --enable-gcdebug option to the rvm install command.

  rvm reinstall 1.8.7 --patch railsexpress -C --enable-gcdebug -n gcdebug
  rvm reinstall 1.9.2 --patch railsexpress -C --enable-gcdebug -n gcdebug
  rvm reinstall 1.9.3 --patch railsexpress -C --enable-gcdebug -n gcdebug

If rvm cannot configure your ruby, update your rvm install.

=== Using patches for ruby-branches (1.8.7/1.9.3 only)

The most recent patch level on the ruby_1_8_7 branch is 360. If you want to use it, you
can install the corresponding ruby version with the following command:

  rvm reinstall 1.8.7-head --patch railsexpress -n railsexpress

You can then use it with the command

  rvm use 1.8.7-head-railsexpress

Note that the patch contained in patch level 359 fixes a serious bug in the ruby
marshaling code, which can crash the ruby interpreter.

On 1.9.3, you can install head similarly:
  rvm reinstall 1.9.3-head --patch railsexpress -n railsexpress

== Caveats

* The 1.9.3 patches heave not received a lot of testing. Use at your own risk!

== Credits

Some of the patches are based on the work of others (some of them are included in ruby
enterprise edition)

* sigvtalrm patch: http://timetobleed.com/ruby-threading-bugfix-small-fix-goes-a-long-way
* malloc size tracking: http://blog.pluron.com/2008/02/memory-profilin.html
* object allocation tracking: http://rubyforge.org/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=11497&group_id=426&atid=1700
* caller for all threads: http://ph7spot.com/musings/caller-for-all-threads
* load performance patch: https://github.com/ruby/ruby/commit/9ce69e7cef1272c86a93eeb9a1888fe6d2a94704#load.c
