.TH rvm 1 "Fri, 9 Jul 2010"
.SH NAME
  rvm - Ruby Version Manager - Version 0.1.33 
.SH SYNOPSIS
  rvm [Flags] [Options] Action [Implementation[,Implementation[,...]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
RVM is a command line tool which allows us to easily install, manage and work with multiple ruby environments from interpreters to sets of gems. RVM itself is easy to install!

.SH OPTIONS

Flags
  --head          - with update, updates rvm to git head version.
  --rubygems      - with update, updates rubygems for selected ruby
  --default       - with ruby select, sets a default ruby for new shells.
  --debug         - Toggle debug mode on for very verbose output.
  --trace         - Toggle trace mode on to see EVERYTHING rvm is doing.
  --force         - Force install, removes old install & source before install.
  --summary       - Used with rubydo to print out a summary of the commands run.
  --jit           - Used with rubinius install to build with JIT
  --latest        - with gemset --dump skips version strings for latest gem.
  --gems          - with uninstall/remove removes gems with the interpreter.
  --reconfigure   - Force ./configure on install even if Makefile already exists.

 Options
  -v|--version    - Emit rvm version loaded for current shell
  -l|--level      - patch level to use with rvm use / install
     --prefix     - path for all rvm files (~/.rvm/), with trailing slash!
     --bin        - path for binaries to be placed (~/.rvm/bin/)
     --source     - src directory to use (~/.rvm/src/)
     --archives   - directory for downladed files (~/.rvm/archives/)
  -S              - Specify a script file to attempt to load and run (rubydo)
  -e              - Execute code from the command line.
  -G|--gems       - root gem path to use
     --patch      - With MRI Rubies you may specify one or more full paths to patches.
  -C|--configure  - custom configure options.
  --nice          - process niceness (for slow computers, default 0)
  --ree-options   - Options passed directly to ree's './installer' on the command line.

.SH ACTION

  version   - show the rvm version installed in rvm_path
  use       - setup current shell to use a specific ruby version
  reload    - reload rvm source itself
  implode   - removes rvm completely. Does not effect your profiles.
  update    - upgrades rvm to the latest version.
  reset     - remove current and stored default & system settings.
  info      - show the *current* environment information for current ruby
  debug     - show info plus additional information for common issues
  install   - install one or many ruby versions.
  uninstall - uninstall one or many ruby versions, leaves their sources
  remove    - uninstall one or many ruby versions and remove their sources
  wrapper   - generates a set of wrapper executables for a given ruby with the specified ruby and gemset combination.
  ruby      - runs a named ruby file against specified and/or all rubies
  gem       - runs a gem command using selected ruby's 'gem'
  rake      - runs a rake task against specified and/or all rubies
  tests     - runs 'rake test' across selected ruby versions
  specs     - runs 'rake spec' across selected ruby versions
  monitor   - Monitor cwd for testing, run `rake {spec,test}` on changes.
  gemset    - gemsets: http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/gemsets/
  gemdir    - display the path to the current gem directory (GEM_HOME).
  srcdir    - display the path to rvm source directory (may be yanked)
  fetch     - Performs an archive / src fetch only of the selected ruby.
  list      - show currently installed rubies, interactive output.
  package   - Install a dependency package {readline,iconv,zlib,openssl}
  notes     - Display notes, with operating system specifics.

.SH IMPLEMENTATION

  ruby      - MRI/YARV Ruby (The Gold Standard) {1.8.6,1.8.7,1.9.1,1.9.2...}
  jruby     - JRuby, Ruby interpreter on the Java Virtual Machine.
  rbx       - Rubinius
  ree       - Ruby Enterprise Edition, MRI Ruby with several custom patches for performance, stability, and memory.
  macruby   - MacRuby, insanely fast, can make real apps (Mac OS X Only).
  maglev    - GemStone Ruby, awesome persistent ruby object store.
  ironruby  - IronRuby, NOT supported yet. Looking for volunteers to help.
  mput      - shyouhei(mput)'s github repository, popular in Japan :)
  system    - use the system ruby (eg. pre-rvm state)
  default   - use rvm set default ruby and system if it hasn't been set.

.SH AUTHORS
  Original Author: Wayne E. Seguin(wayneeseguin@gmail.com)

.SH SEE ALSO

  Main Website: http://rvm.beginrescueend.com/
  Discussion: http://groups.google.com/group/rubyversionmanager/
  Tracker: http://pivotaltracker.com/projects/26822
  IRC Channel: #rvm on irc.freenode.net
